In a prior course we looked at JSON as
an example of semi-structured data,
and we demonstrated that JSON
data can be thought of as a tree.
In this course,
we'll focus on querying JSON data.
Before we start, lets review
the details of the JSON structure, and
get an initial sense of how
to query this form of data.
Let's consider a simple
JSON collection and
look at the structures,
substructures actually, it's composed of.
The atomic element in the structure
is a key value pair, for example,
name is the key and sue is the value,
in this case, an atomic string value.
To query a key value pair,
we should be able perform one basic
operation given the key, return the value.
Now, the value can also be an array,
an array is a list.
So the query operations on it can either
be on its position in the list or
on the value.
Thus, we should be able to ask for the
second element of the array called badges.
Or we should be able to seek objects
of which the key called badges
has a value of blue.
Notice here that the document
collection here is itself an array,
within square brackets and
it's just two elements in it.
The top level array does not have a key,
by default it's called db.
These key value peers
are structured as tuples,
often with a name In the snippet shown,
favorites has a tuple
of two key value pairs.
Now, tuples can be thought of as
relational records, as the operations
would include, projection of an attribute,
and selection over a set of tables.
On the other hand,
the area called 'points',
has two tuples, these two tuples named.
As you will see, we'll address
these tuples by their positions.
Finally, this one has nesting,
that means a mini structure can be
embedded within another structure.
So we need operations
that will let us navigate
from one structure to any of
it's embedded structures.
Now just like a basic SQL query states,
which parts of which records from one or
more people should be reported,
a MongoDB query states
which parts of which documents from
a document collection should be returned.
The primary query is expressed as a find
function, which contains two arguments and
an optional qualifier, there are four
things to notice in this function.
The first is the term collection,
this tells the system which
document collection to use, and
therefore is roughly similar to the From
clause when restricted to one table.
So if the name of the collection is beers,
the first part would say db.beers.find.
The second item is a query filter
which lists all conditions that
the retrieved documents should satisfy,
so it's like a Where clause.
Now, if we want to return everything,
then this filter is left blank.
Otherwise, we'll fill it in a couple
of ways shown in the next few slides.
The third term is a projection class
which is essentially a list of variables
that we want to see in the output.
The fourth and last item sits
after the find function ends and
is separated by a dot,
it's called a cursor modifier.
The word cursor relates back
to SQL where cursor is defined
as a block of results that is
returned to the user in one chunk.
This becomes important when the set of
results is too large to be returned all
together, and
the user may need to specify how much, or
what portion of results
they actually want.
So, we'll start out with a few queries,
where we show how the same query
can be expressed in SQL, and
in MongoDB The first query
wants everything from Beers.
The SQL query is structured
on the table Beers, and
the SELECT * asks to return all rows.
In MongoDB the same query
is more succincted,
since the name of the collection
is already specified in
calling the find function,
the body of the find function is empty.
That means there are no query conditions
and no projection clauses in it.
The second query
needs to return the variables beer and
price for all records.
So the find function here needs an empty
query condition denoted by the open and
closed brace symbols, but the projection
clauses are specifically identified.
There is a 1 if an attribute is output and
a 0 if it is not.
As a shortcut,
only variables with 1 are required.
Okay, so when do you use 0?
A common situation is the following.
Every MongoDB document has
an identifier named _id.
By default every query will
return the id of the document.
If you don't want it to return
this designated attribute,
you should explicitly say, _id:0.
Next we will add query conditions.
That is the equivalent of
the Where clause in SQL.
Our query number three has the query
condition where name is equal to a value.
In MongoDB, that equal to translate
to a variable colon value form.
Notice the symbol used for
a string is quotes.
Query four is more interesting for
two reasons.
First, we see a way in which
the distinct operation is specified.
Notice here that the primary query
function is not find any more but
a new function called distinct.
As we'll see later again in our slides,
MongoDB uses a few special query
functions for some of the operations.
So, you need to know, which function
should be used in what context,
when you write MogoDB queries.
Secondly, in this query,
we have a non-equality condition,
namely, the price is greater than 15.
This example shows MongoDB style
of using operators in a query.
It's always variable:
followed by MongoDB's name for the
operator, and then the comparison value.
So where would you find
MongoDB's operators?
Here are some of the operators
supported in MongoDB.
These operators and others are listed
in the URL shown at the bottom.
The operators shown here are color coded.
The top blue set
are the comparison operators.
We see the $gt, greater than,
operation that we used in the last slide.
The green colored operations are array
operations which we'll see shortly.
And the yellow operators at the bottom
are logical operations that
combine two conditions in different ways
like the AND operation we saw in SQL.
Now, the last operator $nor,
is interesting,
because it is used to specify queries
when neither of two conditions must hold.
For example, find all beer
whose name is neither bad nor
is the price less than $6 per bottle.
Now I would strongly encourage you
to play with these operators in
your hands on session.
Now I'm sure you remember
the like query in SQL.
MongoDB uses regular expressions
to specify partial string matches.
Now some of you may not know
what a regular expression is.
Let's first use some examples.
The first example is the same query
we saw before when we're asking for
beer manufacturers,
whose name has a sub string A-M in it,
so A-M can appear
anywhere within the name.
To do this,
the query condition first states that
it is going to use a $regex operation.
And then we have to give
the partial string as /am/.
Then it gives the directive
that this match
should be case insensitive by placing
an i after the partial string.
And if we just wanted to do names we
would stop right after the find function.
But here we also want to do a count,
which is a post operation
after the find, so we use .count
at the end of the find function.
Now, what if we have the same query,
but we want the partial string A-m?
To appear at the beginning of the name and
you'd like the A to really
be a capital letter.
In this case we use
the caret sign to indicate
that the partial string is at
the beginning of the name.
Naturally we also drop the i at the end
because the match is no longer case
insensitive A more complex
partial string pattern will be a case
where our name starts with capital A-m,
then has a number of characters
in the middle and ends with corp.
So for the first part,
the string pattern is ^Am.
For the second part, that is,
any character in the middle, we use dot
to represent any character, and star
to represent zero or more occurrences.
For the third part, we say corp but
put a dollar at the end to say that it
must appear at the end of the string.
The regular expression pattern is
a sub-language, in itself, and
is supported by most
programming languages today.
We will refer you to the following
URL to learn more about it.
Also, note an example that,
instead of saying, find.count,
we can directly use the count function,
natively defined in MongoDB.
One important feature of JSON is that
everything contain arrays, as a type of
collection objects, this enables us
to query arrays in multiple ways.
One of them,
is to consider an array as a list and
perform intersection operations,
the first query shows this.
The data item is shown on the right.
It has the area value attribute
called tags with three entries.
The first query asks if two specific
strings belong to the array.
In other words, it wants to get
the document whose tagged attribute
intersects with the query supplied array.
In this case, there is an intersection and
the document is returned.
In the second case, it is asking for
a documents who's tags
attribute has no intersection.
Now notice the $nin operator so
there is no intersection with this list.
So in this document there exists and
intersection so nothing will be returned.
A different kind of array query uses
the positions of the list elements and
wants to extract a portion of the array.
This is illustrated in
the third query which asks for
the second and third items of the array.
To encode this in MongoDB,
we use the $slice operator
which needs two parameters,
the number of variable limits to skip,
and the number of variable limits
to extract after skipping.
In this case, we need to extract items two
and three, so the skip value is one and
the number of items is two,
thus returning summer and Japanese.
Now, we could get the same result if we
pose the query using the last statement.
In this case, the minus says that
the system should count from the end and
the true says that it should
extract two elements.
Now if we omitted the minus sign,
it will come from the beginning and
fetch the first two elements.
Finally, we can also ask for a document
who's second element in tags is summer.
In this case we use an array index
tags.1 to denote the second element.
Compound statements are queries
with multiple query conditions that
are combined using logical operations.
The query shown here has one condition,
which is the and,are in terms of MongoDB,
the $and of three different clauses.
The last clause is
the most straight forward,
it states that the desired
item should not be Coors.
The first clause is an or, that is,
a $or, between two sub-conditions,
A the prices either 3.99, or B it is 4.99.
The second clause is also an or
of two sub conditions,
A the rating is good, and
B the quantity is less than 20.
This query shows that the $and and
the $or operators need a list
that is an array of arguments.
To draw a quick comparison,
here's the example of the same
query imposed with SQL.
Now, an important feature of
semi-structured data is that
it allows nesting.
We showed three documents here,
where there is an area named points,
which in turn has two tuples with
the elements points and bonus.
Let's assume that these three
documents are part of a collection, so
they form three items in
an area called users.
Our goal is to show how we can
write queries to extract data
from these documents with nesting.
The first query wants
to find documents for
which, the value of points should
be less than or equal to 80.
Now, which ones?
Now, points.0,
refers to the first tuple
under the outer points, and
points.0.points, refers to
the first element of that tuple.
Clearly, only the second
documents satisfies this query.
Now, what happens if we have
the same query but we drop the zero?
Now, we are looking for points.points
without specifying the array index.
This means that the points element in
any of the tuples should
have a value of 80 or less.
So now, the first and the second
document will satisfy the query.
We can put multiple conditions
as seen in the third query.
It looks for a document where the points
element of a tuple, should be utmost 81,
and the bonus should be exactly 20, and
clearly the second document qualifies.
But does the third document qualify?
In this case, the first tuple
satisfies points greater than 81 and
the second tuple satisfies
bonus equal to 20.
The answer is no, because the comma
is treated as an implicit and
condition within the same double,
as shown in the yellow braces.
Now remember that we said in course
two that all semi-structured
data can be viewed as a tree.
Now, what if I pick a node of a tree and
ask for all the descendents of that node?
That would require the system
to recursively get chideNodes,
over increasing depth from the given node.
Unfortunately, at this time,
MongoDB does not support recursive search.